---
layout: post
title: Lab 3 - Socks
subtitle: Accessing API's to learn about socks
cover-img: /assets/img/API.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/socks_1.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/sock_2.jpg
tags: [books, test]
---


## 1. Discuss how you used the API to obtain the dataset.

Lets breakdown the code to understand how we were able to access the dataset via the API:

To access the API, python requires us to use the **requests** library. This library is used to make HTTP requests which simplifies the process of retrieving HTML content from websites.

~~~
Import requests
~~~

How do we actually send over the request the website? 

~~~
payload = {"key": "YashArtOfDataKEY123ABCsecret", "idx": idx} 
	url = f"https://afeingoldhm.pythonanywhere.com/socks"
	response = requests.get(url, params = payload)
~~~

The **payload** contains two key-value pairs, the key and idx. The key was needed to access the API, it serves as a password, and the idx was used to retrieve the information of a given index, it was a line by line process.  The url variable stores the url of the API with the specific endpoint we are working with. We then use the function **requests.get()** to actually make the request to the indicated url, and it provides the payload, the parameters needed to access the API. 

## 2. Which sock has the most variations? If there is more than one answer, then list all of them.

When running the function to find the sock with the most variations, I received the following output: 

~~~
['argyle crew socks', 'color-blocked socks', 'frilly knee-high socks', 'holey tights', 'kiddie socks', 'mixed-tweed socks', 'no-show socks', 'semi-opaque socks', 'semi-opaque tights', 'sequin leggings', 'simple-accent socks', 'striped socks', 'striped tights', 'tube socks', 'ultra no-show socks', 'vivid leggings', 'vivid socks', 'vivid tights’]. 
~~~

These are all the socks with the most variations. At first, I **misread the question**, and tried to output each of the variations for the sock with the most variations. My thought process for this question was to make a dictionary where a sock name would be a key, and the values would be a list of the variations that I continually appended to. I am receiving syntax errors and am in the midst of figuring out this problem, but this is what I have so far: 

~~~
def variations_of_most_socks(socks):
	variations = {}

	for idx, sock in socks.items():
		sock_name = sock["sock_name"]
		variation = sock["variation"]

		if sock_name not in variations:
			variations[sock_name] = {}
			variations[sock_name].append(variation)

		if sock_name in variations:
			variations[sock_name].append(variation)

	print(variations)
	return(variations)
~~~

## 3. How many socks of each color are there? If a sock has two different colors, it should be counted in both. However, if a sock has the same Color1 and Color2, make sure you don’t double count it!

When running the function to find the number of times a sock color appeared, I received the following output: 

~~~
{'Pink': 45, 'Red': 44, 'Aqua': 34, 'Orange': 29, 'Purple': 40, 'Green': 52, 'Blue': 49, 'Yellow': 35, 'White': 90, 'Black': 66, 'Beige': 17, 'Gray': 34, 'Brown': 12, 'Colorful': 15}
~~~

This dictionary shows a sock color and its corresponding number of times in the dataset. For this function, I **used a series of if statements.** 

I used them to **create a new key-value pair** in my dictionary, 

~~~
if color_1 not in colors:
	colors[color_1] = 1
~~~

**Not double count** if a sock had the same color twice,

~~~
if color_1 == color_2:
	colors[color_1] += 1
~~~

And **add 1** to a value each time its corresponding color key was present.

~~~
elif color_1 != color_2:
	colors[color_1] += 1
	colors[color_2] += 1
~~~


## 4. Discuss your process of how you worked on this lab. 

There were a few difficulties in this lab, but having a deeper understanding of dictionaries and additional help made this project manageable and enjoyable. The very first error I encountered was titling my file socks.py, but Feingold figured that one out quickly. I struggled most with understanding the purpose of each line in my first function, get_data. Look at question 1 response. I used a sample in API practice as a guideline, and worked from there. I learned the purpose of a payload is to pass in key information when requesting the information and response.ok() checks if the status code is successful meaning the information was retrieved. 

I learned a bit on the syntax end of things too. I kept on getting an error when running my for loop in the function num_of_sock_colors. Thomas explained that instead of:

~~~
for sock in socks:
~~~
I actually needed:
~~~
for idx, sock in socks.items():
~~~
I now know this is required because you have to iterate over the key-value pair, both of them. The first line only iterates through the keys and not the actual data. The latter iterates through both the key, idx, and value, sock.

Thomas also helped when I kept on receiving a NoneType error. I learned that only objects with a value can be iterated over meaning there were empty boxes in the dataset messing with my data collection and I could easily bypass this with the following lines:

~~~
if sock == None: 
break
~~~

In the moment, I decided to use what I understood better which was:

~~~
while idx <= 363:
~~~

Besides this, I felt that the logic of solving these problems stemmed directly from our previous labs such as digimon and penguins, so I did not need to think very critically as to approaching the questions. Overall, I enjoyed doing the lab because it was a nice balance between learning and applying existing material. 
